---
layout: post
title: "Molly Clark Kenzler Scholarship Essay"
date: 2018-06-30
---

We are surrounded by a cacophony of voices demanding that we produce more, weigh less, get low, and stay high. Of all the people who are berated by the ways of the world, pastors may have it the worst. Not only are they subject to the everyday voices of our culture, they are also barraged by companies promising them the key to better sermons, bigger crowds, and increased giving. These voices masquerade as ways to “grow the kingdom”, yet appeal to man’s lust for power and control. 

The past five years I have worked for a church, where I have witnessed first hand that pastors are some of the loneliest people in the world. Surrounded by people who look up to them and expect even more, pastors often feel that if they were themselves, they would lose their livelihood. In an effort to satiate the pressures of their elder boards and congregations, pastors often resort to indicators of success that lure them down the path of power and control.  Increases in attendance and giving serve as smokescreens, hiding the insecurity of the pastor and allowing the war Evil wages on pastor’s hearts to continue.

To pastor well requires integrity. I do not mean merely exhibiting good morals, but rather being whole. Can a shepherd care for his sheep if he is not well? Unfortunately many pastors become fragmented, living one way behind the pulpit, yet another behind the computer screen. As Sunday becomes a religious performance, with value being placed on the quality of the music or the eloquence of the sermon, a pastor’s worth shifts from intrinsic to external, and his or her humanity is shattered.

Pastors need pastoring. They need people who can look them in the eye and remind them that they are more than the entertainment value of a Sunday service or the number of people who gave for the first time last month. Even greater they need people to help put them back together; people who, with honor and truth, can pick up the broken pieces and heal the wounds of Evil. The grab for power and control by pastors must stop if the Kingdom really is to grow. However it will not stop until pastors have integrity: something they will not find alone.

While many in my generation are leaving the church due to its failure of to address their deeper (and often unknown) spiritual needs, I feel called to press in and work to heal the wounds that fester hypocrisy and discord. However I know from experience that I need training and healing if I am to be used to bring life to church leadership.

The story above is the story of my church. Over the past year, half of our church staff has left over issues with the senior pastor’s direction for the church and personal character. It saddens me deeply to see such a loss of hope that people give up and move on. However, I do not fault people for leaving an unsafe environment. I am convinced that those who left will not be the last if things do not change. The narrative will continue; pastors will continue to self harm by isolating themselves from their congregations out of fear, and congregations will abandoned their pastors when their needs are not met.

Before I realized that the core issue facing my church was internal and deeply personal, I tried several systematic and external approaches to ameliorate our plight. I sought to improve our management structures, clarify our organizational goals, and restructure our staff roles. However each of my attempts proved fruitless. Through personal study, I realized the problems we faced were much deeper than what I had attempted to fix. Fear and insecurity, stemming from a history of neglect and abandonment, drove our organization. My personal study allowed and equipped me to change my approach. I began to address underlying wounds and work against years of believed lies.

I have had many conversations with my lead pastor this past year. We have visited his childhood, talked about the past year’s events, shared some of our deepest fears, and dreamt about the future. Instead of being frustrated by his decisions, I sought to understand why those decisions were made and bring to light the fear that was hidden in darkness. Our conversations have served to abate the loneliness of pastoral life and worked the first touches of transformation. There is yet a long road ahead for my church, and I am certain that it is not a road to be walked alone. Forsaking the path of power and control requires that we walk hand-in-hand.  
Innovative and authentic leadership in the church does not look like bigger, better, or faster ministries. It is not results based. It is relational. It looks like sitting with people in their brokenness and allowing relationship to transform hurt into health.

My calling is to be a deep pool of water where people can come reflect and be renewed. I am not called to be a library of knowledge, where people come to receive a nugget of information and place the book back on the shelf. I am called to be a person full of the life giving water of truth, where people come to swim, play, and be healed. Yes, I want to grow in my knowledge of therapeutic practices, but knowledge by itself puffs up. I believe that studying at The Seattle School will equip me to lead, not solely out of knowledge, but out of integrated personhood.

If I am to live out my calling to be a deep pool of water, I cannot do it alone. I need people to pour into me from their waters. I need people to remove the jagged rocks lurking beneath my surface. I need people to clean the rubbish from my shores. I need to grow in my own understanding of self, that I may lead others on their journey to wholeness.

Pastors are not alone in their loneliness. It is something everyone faces. We are all tempted to listen to the voices telling us we will be fulfilled if we buy, do, or have. However fulfillment cannot be achieved externally. It is Trinitarian, existing intrinsically through relationship. It is this type of relating that I want to embody. And I believe that my time at The Seattle School will help me as I seek to live that reality. I am both excited and terrified for what the next few years at The Seattle School hold for me, yet oh so eager to dive in and swim!  
